I'm a fugitive I'm a fugitive who's
evaded imprisonment
who's evaded marginality and mediocrity
one who was part of the special
education system when I was in school
and who narrowly escaped the vortex
truth is I shouldn't be here
I should be somewhere out in the streets
with a squeegee annoying you when you go
up to the stop sign I should be in
someone's prison you know I cheated I
was suspended from school disrupted once
I even spat in class sorry for those are
you eating your little muffins why did I
do it I'll go into that a bit a little
bit later but the bottom line is that I
did it and it impressed my friends and I
scored points with them but at the same
time I was an educational misfit I would
do the beatbox instead of doing your
homework you guys know what the beatbox
is or many of you know what the beat
boxes who doesn't know what the beatbox
is let's let's just be honest right now
who doesn't know how many honest people
one two honest people three four five
okay the beatbox is a noise that is made
with the mouth in which you make it's an
instrument it's basically it sounds like
let me give you let me give you
let me tell you the irony the oddity is
you clap but I did that on your time I
was doing that while I was should have
been doing your work in class that's
what I was perfecting in school
you guys remember Sammy Davis jr. he
sang a song called mr. Bojangles but a
guy who's to dance at minstrel shows
some educators are like mr. Bojangles
they only perform and the principal
walks to the door when the
superintendent comes in it's tough for
their feet yes as I said he's a good
teacher Bonilla what you mean as I put
up some differentiated instruction in De
Aza hasn't put some stuff in it work on
them on the backboard yes sir as it is a
good teacher administrator folia it is
killing the hearts in the conscience of
our children if you only perform when
other people are watching you those eyes
my friends are watching you the owners
eyes are the ones you two people falling
for because those are the ones whose
matter used to be a principle when I was
a teacher in Baltimore he can tell you
he called me last summer and said mr.
grant I don't think you realize how good
your HSA scores work because when I
walked into that class I said what what
what do the kids get last year 61% all
right this is my watch these kids will
hold it down in my class and we were
taught we were ranked on the dog once
say the first year me teach in US
government why because there's an
expectation
you know sometimes teachers that will No
Child Left Behind and the classes are so
big and what are we doing the parents
don't look you've got to make it happen
as an educator you really do here's the
deal I'm not part of the DC
administration you look at my website
I'm not part of them I don't I'm just
saying as an educator it's what I did
you would have to make it happen
it is what it is your classroom is what
it is we have 35 children in your class
boarding children your class in some
cases in Baltimore City guess what you
be on point if you start giving less
because of the bureaucracy or the
systemic issues that are happening you
are only hurting them and they need you
I need you we need to do right by them
right now we're talking about a
historical book an historical figure
called Jesus he tells us a story called
the sheep and the goats because one day
I'll go away and I'll come back and I'll
say to you at the last day when I was
hungry you gave me nothing to eat when I
was thirsty you gave me nothing to drink
when I was a stranger and needed clothes
you gave me nothing when I was sick and
in prison you did not visit me and then
the people will say well when did we see
you hungry and sick and in prison he
says whatever you did not do to the
least of them you did not do to me
contrariwise when I was hungry you gave
me something to eat when I was thirsty
you gave me something to drink when I
was sick and in prison and a stranger I
needed help you took care of me and then
they will likewise say well did you
needed hungry you get food and thirsty
not you he says whatever you did for the
least of them you did for me you know if
just the fact that they're your children
in your classroom that doesn't motivate
you and hopefully some of this will you
know at the end of your time Hilda
Thompson's gonna say when I was a
kinesthetic learner you kept giving me
knit O's rheton will say when I needed
you to call home you never called pastor
Ricardo will say when I needed
accommodations you made me feel like a
problem to you Lorenzo will say when I
had the imposter syndrome you confirmed
my doubts you know and then you will say
when were you a kinesthetic learner I
needed a call home or needed
accommodations or had the imposter
syndrome no ratan hilda Lorenzo and
Ricardo will all say whatever
did not do for the least of them you did
not do for me contrariwise you know
someone's gonna walk up to you yourself
someone wrote they said myself I'm my
hero someone wrote Barbara the mother
will walk up and say when I was ignorant
you enlightened me you know grandpa will
say what I was forgetful you gave me
alternative strategies God will say when
I had an IEP someone wrote God down you
made unique modifications Rachael was
saved when I was a knucklehead you had
vision for me but you think you know
where did I ever teen god I didn't teach
you what are you talking about you know
Rachel I don't remember you being in my
class they will all say whatever you did
for the least of them you did for me you
are my hero
do right by them thank you
you